Second round of changes to the MCU docs (#1624)
slint-ui/slint: api/rs/slint/mcu.md

# Slint on Microcontrollers (MCU)

> The following scetions explain how to use Slint to develop a UI on a MCU in a bare metal environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections explain how to use Slint to develop a UI in a bare metal environment.
```

Author: I fixed the typo, but I'm unsure about the removal of the MCU. The examples below refer to HAL crates that I think are clearly MCU material. How strong do you feel about it?

Reviewer: not strongly

## Prerequisites

Writing an application in Rust that runs on a MCU requires several prerequisites:

* Install a Rust toolchain to cross-compile to the target architecture.
* Locate and select the correct Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL) crates and drivers, and depend on them in your `Cargo.toml`.
* Install tools for flashing and debugging your code on the device.

We recommend reading the [Rust Embedded Book](https://docs.rust-embedded.org/book/),
as well as the curated list of [Awesome Embedded Rust](https://github.com/rust-embedded/awesome-embedded-rust) for a wide range of different
crates, tools and training materials. These resources should guide you through the initial setup and often come with "hello world" examples
to get started with your device.

> Slint requires a global memory allocator. That is available the nightly version of Rust, because the support for using a custom global

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Slint requires a global memory allocator. That is only possible with the nightly version of Rust, because the support for using a custom global
```

Author: I used "That is currently only available in the nightly version" to emphasise that this will change in the future (hopefully :-). Is that ok?

Reviewer: That's Ok,  although i liked "possible" more :-)

Author: Ahh, you've convinced me. After all, they might decide to implement this using different API if they stabilise it, and then it's about the possibility of doing it, not about the availability of the concrete API that's in nightly right now. I'll change it :)

The following sections explain how to use Slint to develop a UI on a MCU in a bare metal environment.

## Prerequisites

Writing an application in Rust that runs on a MCU requires several prerequisites:

* Install a Rust toolchain to cross-compile to the target architecture.
* Locate and select the correct Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL) crates and drivers, and depend on them in your `Cargo.toml`.
* Install tools for flashing and debugging your code on the device.

We recommend reading the [Rust Embedded Book](https://docs.rust-embedded.org/book/),
as well as the curated list of [Awesome Embedded Rust](https://github.com/rust-embedded/awesome-embedded-rust) for a wide range of different
crates, tools and training materials. These resources should guide you through the initial setup and often come with "hello world" examples
to get started with your device.

Slint requires a global memory allocator. That is currently only available in the nightly version of Rust, because the support for using a custom global
allocator in a bare metal environment with `#![no_std]` has not been stabilized yet (see [#51540](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/51540) or

> [#66741](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66741) for tracking issues).

Reviewer: This comments on a oudated version of the wording.
I think the current wording is good enough.
If you think it could be improved, feel free to change it.

slint-build = "0.3"
```

The default features of the `slint` crate are tailored towards hosted environments and includes the "std" feature. In bare metal environments,
you need to disable the default features.

In the snippet above, three features are selected:

 * `compat-0.3.0`: We select this feature when disabling the default features. For a detailed explanation see our blog post ["Adding default cargo features without breaking Semantic Versioning"](https://slint-ui.com/blog/rust-adding-default-cargo-feature.html).
 * `unsafe-single-threaded`: Slint internally uses Rust's [`thread_local!`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/macro.thread_local.html) macro to store global data.

>    This feature is only available in the Rust Standard Library (std), but is not available in bare metal environments. As a fallback, the `unsafe-single-threaded`
>    feature changes Slint to use unsafe static for storage. This way, you guarantee to use Slint API only from the main thread, or from interrupt handlers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This macro is only available in the Rust Standard Library (std), not in bare metal environments. As a fallback, the `unsafe-single-threaded`
   feature changes Slint to use unsafe static for storage. By selecting this feature, you must ensure that you only use
   the Slint API from a single thread and not from interrupt handlers.
```

The sense of the sentence was changed: It is **not** possible to use slint from interrupt handlers

Author: I remove the redundant "available" (well spotted).

Well spotted about the change of meaning!

### The Renderer

> In desktop and embedded environments, Slint typically uses operating system provided APIs to render the user interface. These APIs are often hardware accelerated.
> In contrast, most MCUs don't have dedicated chips to render advanced graphics. Instead, the CPU is responsible for computing the colors of each
> pixels on the screen. This is called software rendering, and Slint provides a software renderer for this task.

Reviewer: I'm not sure it is so good to say that "most MCUs don't have dedicated chips to render advanced graphics", while many do. (eg, DMA2D or other DMA-like accelerator)
This could confuse people who would think they cannot use the software renderer to use DMA2D, for example

My suggestion:

```suggestion
In desktop and embedded environments, Slint typically uses operating system provided APIs to render the user interface using the GPU.
In contrast, most MCUs don't have GPUs. Instead, the all the rendering is done by sotfware on the CPU. This is called software rendering, and Slint provides a SoftwareRenderer for this task.
```

```

Note: In our experience, using the synchronous `DrawTarget::fill_contiguous` function is slow. If
your device is capable of using DMA, you may be able to achieve better performance by using
two line buffers: One buffer to render into with the CPU, while the other buffer is transferred to
the screen using DMA asynchronously.

> Note: If you see wrong colors on your screen, it may be necessary to invert the bits in the u16 pixel
> representation before sending them to the screen driver.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

If the user uses DrawTarget::fill_contiguous, this shouldn't be a problem at all.
otherwise it might just be a misconfigured driver or something. I believe most developer would figure that out by themselves.

Author: Ok, if you think so. We can add it again if it becomes a FAQ.
